they're looking for that one thing no
mom of course i don't hate you
oh my god mom i'm so sorry please stop
crying and then you pat them all
narcissism dr k's comments about
narcissism
have shaken me from the stream today dr
k talked about narcissistic tendencies
and i realized that what he has
described that he is describing me
perfectly
i feel as though this piece of
information has completed a puzzle i've
been trying to figure out since i was
22.
i'm now 38 so i'm probably one of the
oldest people here and i'll tell you
15 years of anxiety and depression is no
fun thing
manipulating people expecting special
treatment expecting success
without putting the effort in slow
degradation of relationships not caring
about others etc
false modesty and hoping for adoration
it feels like a massive rock has been
dropped on me i realize that my ego and
expectations have been the root of
so many problems in my life i've always
known i have low self-esteem and i can
see how that
that low confidence has led me to this
bizarre state of mind where you expect
the world
for no good reason dr k if you're
reading this please please please do a
video about steps one can take to reduce
this trait
and take steps in the right direction i
really need some guidance here any
advice from other members would be
greatly appreciated too
so let's start off so before we get to
advice
okay what we're gonna do is talk a
little bit about
narcissism in in a kind of a weird way
so the first thing that i'm going to
give you guys kind of a a quick
backstory okay
so i think what this poster was
referring to last week on stream we
talked a little bit about
how narcissism manifests kind of in two
ways
right so if i have if i'm insecure about
myself
one way i can deal with that is to be
arrogant so
like i put on this like very like big
shell
that's like grandiose and i'm like hey
everyone look at me
i'm so awesome and i need other people's
adoration
the other thing that sometimes happens
that can result in like people sort of
being kind of manipulative and hard to
deal with but they're not
arrogant is for people to actually have
like insecurity on the inside but then
they still engage in all of these
behaviors to like get other people to
like like them but they're not like
arrogant behaviors they're like softer
behaviors
so there are things like excessive
modesty um
you know like like sort of help seeking
kind of behavior like
oh woe is me behavior they have these
emotional needs of insecurity where like
they need to
feel loved and respected by other people
and they just engage in like
non-arrogant behaviors
to sort of get that kind of like
reassurance from the outside
and this creates a real problem in
relationships because like
sometimes when you're with these kinds
of people like they're not doing
anything
wrong but you still sort of feel
subconsciously manipulated
and when you feel subconsciously
manipulated like if you start to blame
them in your mind you kind of like feel
guilty
so you're kind of in this situation
where like oh man like this this person
is trapping me but also like making me
feel like an [ __ ] for being trapped
it's kind of really hard to describe but
like that's what i would kind of say
so this is a weird kind of subtle
narcissism so today what i want to talk
to you all about is like kind of the two
types of narcissism okay
so to start off with let's start with
kind of looking at
yoga so what we want to do is we want to
start by sort of understanding
narcissism and by
the way that we're going to understand
narcissism is actually through a yogic
lens all right so in yoga we have
three parts of our mind the manus is our
emotional mind
the ahamkara is our ego and the buddhi
is our intellect there's usually like an
interplay here where
the the goal of the ahamkar is to be a
bouncer
is to protect us from feeling hurt
so anytime we feel hurt in our emotional
mind
the bouncer steps in and then goes to
our intellect and like
tells us to rationalize
okay so the classic example that i use
when illustrating this is
i remember when i was in college my
friends and i would talk about the
ladies
and then eventually one of us would like
muster up the courage to ask one of the
girls out
and when we asked her out and she said
no
then something weird happened because
then we'd start like
dissing her right like we'd start saying
oh she's not that attractive
she's not even that great oh yeah i was
like i was like
you know she's like i'm i i can do
better than that
and we sort of do this weird kind of
like rationalization to like
put her down and pump ourselves up and
so that's actually what's going on there
is we feel hurt by the rejection
and then our ego steps in and is like oh
no
we're feeling hurt let's feel better
and then it goes over to the intellect
and it's like hey
come up with some kind of
rationalizations about how awesome we
are
and let's put her down and let's pump
ourselves up
i need evidence to support these two
goals okay
so this is kind of a quick primer so
let's take a look at narcissism
so in narcissism what we're talking
about is
low internal self-worth so people with
narcissism
actually like the reason they're
arrogant is because they actually have
low internal self-worth
and so this is where what we usually see
right when we think about narcissism is
like people who are narcissistic have to
like
advertise how good they are so since you
have low
uh internal self-worth what we have to
do is we rely
on external
signs of worth so if i don't feel
confident in myself
what i end up doing is like i'll go to
like other people
and i'll like i i need them to
explain to me that i'm really really
awesome right so when we think about the
traditional narcissists we're thinking
about
sort of traditional narcissism okay so
like if we look at the
uh features of traditional narcissism
we're talking about stuff like arrogance
okay we're talking about like showing
off
we're talking about being grandiose
right so like
if i don't believe that like i'm a good
person on the inside
what i have to do is like advertise how
awesome i am
if i don't think that i'm like a great
person like and i don't have an
intrinsic sense of self-worth
i need to wear really expensive clothes
i need to drive a really nice car
because then i can
show the world how much i'm worth i need
a really big title
at work i need to have a lot of money
not only do i need to have a lot of
money i need to show people that i have
a lot of money
and sometimes we even end up with a 30
millionaire which is someone who makes
30 grand a year
but lives like a millionaire they rack
up the credit card debt they like drive
nice cars they're like living the high
life
and you know they're gonna make all
their money down the road like they know
that they're gonna be like
they're gonna hit it because they're so
awesome right so we have sort of this
traditional narcissism
which we can also kind of think of as
thick-skinned so these people sort of
seem thick-skinned because if you insult
them you know they're not going to start
crying
they're very overt right they show off
they're very also oblivious this is what
we think of in terms of narcissism
they're so clueless the world revolves
around them
they don't think about anyone else
relating to this is exhibitionistic
showing off right they're grandiose
and if you also think about traditional
narcissists they
they devalue other people so when it
comes to dealing with other people
they'll
kind of devalue them okay what these
people do is they have to elicit
reassurance
okay so we're gonna end up eliciting
reassurance because that's what you need
right you guys remember this
we have to rely on external stuff so i
have to like post stuff on social media
and then everyone's going to tell me how
awesome i am i'm going to tell everyone
i got promoted i'm gonna wear these nice
clothes
and then when you get those compliments
when people give you likes and stuff
like that
that in turn enhances your self-worth
but only for a time because it's
external right
so what these people end up with is sort
of like this fragile sense of self-worth
because if people don't compliment your
clothes
and someone else in the room is like by
the way you got promoted oh i just like
started my own company
so it's a very like fragile sense of
self-worth that like
can fluctuate very wildly which is what
leads to kind of this like
bad behavior okay so this results in bad
behavior
this is why they become arrogant and
they devalue other people
so if someone if i got a promotion and
then someone else is like oh i just
started my own company
then i'm gonna have to devalue that
person to poop on them to make myself
feel better
because they're exposing my inferiority
and remember the ahm guard doesn't want
that it's the bouncer of the mind
so it's like oh no this person is making
me feel bad
so let's not do that so this is what
people think of as narcissism make sense
chat
so now the interesting thing is that if
we look at the pieces
okay if we look at these pieces over
here and we look at these pieces over
here
and we look at eliciting reassurance
and we look at enhancing self-worth
and we look at bad behavior there's
actually another
set of features which hits all of these
same things okay
and this is what this poster is talking
about so let's go back to the top
so let's talk about non-traditional
narcissism
let's take a look at our list chat and
let's see if we can figure this out
okay so thick skinned
what do you guys think these people are
like thin
skin overt
oblivious hyper vigilant exhibitionistic
in the closet or closeted okay
grandiose vulnerable and instead of
devaluing
they idealize okay
so this is the the profile of a
non-traditional narcissist so let's run
through this real quick okay
so like when people insult you instead
of fighting back
you feel really hurt but still on the
inside the reason that you have to fight
back
like if if i get insulted by someone and
i don't feel confident let's say about
my intelligence
right what i have to do is i have to
argue with them i have to prove them
wrong
because secretly on the inside i believe
that i'm i may not be very smart
so that's the traditional narcissist the
belief is still the same in the
non-traditional
narcissists they still feel insecure but
instead what they do is they feel hurt
they avoid right they withdraw
so we'll get to these in a second but
we'll get to like avoidance behaviors
and then they're also so the the the
traditional narcissist is over
while the non-traditional narcissist is
covert
so both of them once again are insecure
so how does the traditional narcissist
deal with it they deal with it by like
advertising how awesome they are whereas
the
the non-traditional narcissist hides
right i don't want people to see me i
don't want people to hear me i don't
like
oh my god like everyone is like going to
realize how
bad i am and we'll get to that in a
second so then we get to oblivious
versus hyper vigilant right so the
traditional narcissist
is like doesn't think about or doesn't
appear to be aware of
how other people think or feel whereas
the non-traditional narcissist is hyper
vigilant
they're always paying attention to how
other people are reacting and how they
feel
the traditional narcissist is
exhibitionistic kind of
related to covert so like the
non-traditional narcissist keeps
everything on the inside
and will occasionally show people things
so instead of being grandiose they'll be
vulnerable and this is a big one chat
so the traditional narcissist places
everyone else below them right so i am
here
and i need to put other people down here
this balances things out whereas the
non-traditional
narcissist puts everyone up here they
idealize instead
oh look at how crappy i am everyone in
the world is better than i am
so then this leads to manipulative
behaviors via eliciting reassurance
what are the behaviors that the
non-traditional narcissists engage in
let's look at this
right so they avoid and they hide but
they also
emotionally manipulate because you feel
insecure about yourself so you'll do
things like seek reassurance
you know you'll do these like little
like things that sometimes are quite
frustrating to people they're like oh
are you busy
oh you're busy today oh that's okay
i i i know you have a real life worth
living it's okay don't worry about it
i'm gonna hang up now
you go enjoy your life and then the
other person on on the phone is like
wait what
what what what what's happening like
wait
what and so what they end up doing is
they have this
hunger that comes from their low
self-esteem
so what they'll end up doing is like all
kinds of stuff being falsely modest like
you know eliciting reassurance in some
way but it's kind of like this sneaky
kind of manipulative
sort of like you know like woe is me and
like you're so awesome and i'm so bad
and they do that like all these things
because when you say that to someone
right it's not insulting
like when you're dealing with an
arrogant narcissist you don't want to
spend time with them because they're
being an [ __ ] to you
and when you're dealing with a
non-traditional narcissist it's like you
still don't want to spend time with them
but you feel guilty for not wanting to
spend with time time with them
so you end up spending time with them
anyway and like trying to convince them
that they're awesome
it's kind of this weird thing that like
once again
sort of enhances self-worth what doesn't
really enhance self-worth
temporarily but it doesn't really unders
like it doesn't really address the
insecurity
because you're kind of manipulating them
into
like you know supporting you and so this
is kind of an
interesting pattern of non-traditional
narcissism
and it's it's interesting because the
reason i call it narcissism is if we go
back to the roots
there are a lot of common factors right
so low internal self-worth and
relying on external sense of self-worth
to
buffer your internal sense of self-worth
this is the last key thing okay this is
going to be the last thing that ties all
this together
spends a lot
of time thinking
about how they
are perceived so this is the last common
element
so in both of these situations if we're
talking about what are the traits of
narcissism it's this box right here
because both of these people at the end
of the day 20 of their ram
is spent thinking about how other people
are thinking about them
oh does this person realize how awesome
i am if they don't realize how
awesome i am i better tell them does
this person
think about how pathetic i am if they
don't realize how pathetic i am i better
tell them i better advertise
i better get some get me some of that
sweet sweet
reassurance and then like and so this is
sort of like a good example of
understanding like traditional and
non-traditional narcissism so what are
the key features here
and and what are we kind of talking
about so the first thing to understand
is that
not all narcissists are the same and we
sort of have this idea in society that
narcissism is characterized by like
arrogance and devaluing others and
things like that
but if we go to the roots of it there's
another subtle kind of narcissism
and i call it narcissism but really from
a yogic perspective it's
a an ahamkar that's kind of bent out of
shape
low internal self-worth so i need
external reassurance from other people
and then like since i need that external
reassurance from other people like it
doesn't matter how i get it i can go the
arrogant route
or i can go the pathetic route they're
both still the same thing
right so i spend a lot of time thinking
about how other people perceive me
and so what what ends up happening is if
you look at this person why am i using
the term narcissism it's because
everything revolves around them still
right even though you feel really
terrible
it's like if someone doesn't have the
time to talk to you today
it's like oh my god like i am that i'm
not worth
anything like they're they i'm not
worth it enough for them to spend time
with me like i'm not good enough whereas
it's like no it has nothing to do with
you it's because like
this person is moving today like it has
nothing to do with you
and so in both of these cases this mind
that they have
thinks that everything is kind of
revolving around them right if someone
doesn't have time for you
that's a personal insult or is justified
based on how little you're worth but at
the end of the day like you're not
considering them
you're just thinking about how they
think about you
and so that's kind of we caught why we
call it sort of traditional and like
non-traditional narcissism
okay and so it has these other features
like being covert being
thin skin being hyper vigilant
idealizing people instead of
not idealizing people this is why i like
the sunscreen because if you
think about that kind of person it's
like is that person really narcissistic
not really
but they have features of an ahamkar or
an ego that is functioning in a
particular way
which is low self-worth on the inside
therefore i need self-worth from the
outside and i'm going to spend a lot of
time
figuring out how to get those emotional
needs met
no matter what strategy i use i'm gonna
get
other people to notice and appreciate
and tell me how great i am
i can do it by pretending to be pathetic
or i can do it by pretending to be
awesome
but it's still pretending and i still
need it from other people
you know a lot of people are going to be
asking what do we do about it
so once again i think the first thing is
to understand these patterns
right like notice what you're doing
notice like what you do with people
when you're feeling like emotionally
needy
how do you manipulate them into engaging
in a behavior with you
right so like like and notice that kind
of thing and the interesting thing is
instead of like giving into that
behavior
just notice the need and maybe be a
little bit transparent with them and be
be like hey i understand you're busy i'm
kind of feeling down today like do you
have some time to talk
and just be transparent that you have an
emotional need it can be
absolutely terrifying but
notice yourself first and then start to
like give people the benefit of the
doubt and let them participate
in the relationship in a healthy way
which can be challenging
so unfortunately there aren't like tips
i mean i can give you a tip but it's
like easier said than done
so this is the kind of thing where
there's like actually a lot more work
that has to go into it right so we can
diagnose someone with depression if
someone asks me what are tips for
depression well there's like treatment
for that right
so in the same way like you can you know
work with a therapist work with a coach
we have a section of dr k's guides on
the nature of self which is sort of
geared towards
narcissism and self-esteem and sort of
these ideas of like
what is the true self and what do you
think you are and what's the difference
there
um so we've got some of that kind of
stuff in there so hopefully that'll help
but i just wanted to kind of explain
that concept because i know it's kind of
weird that i called like
those kinds of people narcissists so i
wanted to clarify and also explain to
you that
you know there's there's actually this
like common route to narcissism which
can manifest in two separate ways
so the non-traditional narcissist is the
same as a needy person
potentially yes right so if we if we go
back to the core
of it an emotionally needy person
can sometimes have this kind of world
revolves around them
sort of perspective but i think that and
emotionally there are other reasons why
other people can be like emotionally
needy without that ahamkar kind of thing
so it's one of the things on the
differential diagnosis of an emotionally
needy person
are there other terms for the
non-traditional narcissist
i'm not sure i think that
sometimes people will uh call them like
covert narcissists as well like it
depends on
what the literature is that's why i like
to use the yogic terminology because
i think the yogic terminology still
explains it the best
which is it's like it's a humkar it's
like a sense of
ego and a low sense of self-worth and
when you
start with that low sense of self-worth
you can get those emotional needs met
through two different pathways
how to recover from being hurt by a
particularly manipulative narcissist
oh man this is tricky um it takes a lot
of work but i'd say one really powerful
thing that people
don't tend to under utilize is actually
forgiveness
so once you get really manipulated by an
emotional narcissist i'd say forgiveness
and boundary setting
are the two things that you need to do
to like fix it right so you sort of
understand and you accept that this
person
like doesn't have control over their
emotional needs so they engage in
manipulative behavior so like
you know that like it's nothing personal
it's not like they tried to screw me
over it's just
they're hungry or thirsty and they're
gonna get their food or drink however
they can
and at the same time while you can
forgive them for that and like let go of
that
anger and let go of that resentment
through forgiveness you also want to set
super firm boundaries because as long as
they are
like you're letting them back into your
life like it's gonna keep happening over
and over and over again
so this is also really confusing for
some people but you can forgive someone
and never talk to them again forgiveness
is about
letting go of your own resentment and
like not blaming them anymore
and at the same time like setting a
boundary like you can forgive someone
and also like move on so i'll give you
guys just another like simple
example to drive that home so like let's
say i'm in a romantic relationship and
my partner cheats on me
i can forgive him i can say like you
know i understand you made a mistake
like
i understand you didn't mean to and
you know you hurt me a lot but i can
forgive you for hurting me like i
forgive you
and also i'm never gonna date you again
this is where people get really confused
because they assume
that forgiveness means that we're wiping
the slate clean
and we're reversing time and we're back
to square one
right like but that's not necessarily
the case you can let go of that
resentment you can say like look
i'm not gonna like i'm gonna go on and
live my life
and i'm not gonna hold on to this anger
and like don't worry about it like you
made a mistake
i forgive you you go live your life i'm
gonna go live mine they're like wait but
i want to get back together you're like
yeah i
understand you want to get back together
but i can't trust you
i can forgive you but like i don't trust
you and i'm not interested in a
relationship with you
i don't hold it like you know i i i wish
you no
ill will or malice like i hope you go
and find a healthy relationship and i'm
going to go find a healthy relationship
too
it's just i don't think i want to do
that with you
so someone's asking what's so let's
let's understand a couple of things one
is
what's the point of forgiveness and
second is what's the point of telling
them that you forgive them
so the point of forgiveness i mean sure
you can sort of do it for them but like
i really think forgiveness is powerful
uh for your own benefit because if we
think about
until i forgive what am i holding on to
i'm holding on to anger i'm holding on
to resentment
you know and you're allowed to hold on
to that if you want to i'm not saying
necessarily that it's
bad to hold on to them but that's just
where you need to make a judgment call
is this resentment interfering in my
life yes or no
right and if the resentment is bothering
you then like it's it can be healthy to
forgive
and then what's the point in telling
them because they may be feeling guilty
and they may want your forgiveness they
may be asking your
for your forgiveness you're no one is
entitled to forgiveness by the way right
so
forgiveness is entirely the right of the
aggrieved party
like the person who committed the sin or
the crime
is not entitled to forgiveness of any
way shape or form
and so i i would say you can tell them
because you know that way they can move
on with their life it's good for them
and at the same time hold your boundary
right like fool me once shame on you and
i'm not going to give you the chance to
fool me again
can you move on without forgiving i
think so i know it sounds kind of weird
but i think you can move on without
forgiving right
you can say you're you can accept so you
have to accept that's the key thing
moving on is about acceptance
you can accept that this person hurt you
and that you've forgiven them and you
let them go no hard feelings let go of
the results
or you can accept you know what i'm
never gonna forgive this person
for the rest of my life i will detest
them and what they did
and that's just like i'ma hold that it's
gonna be part of me like it's cool like
i'm gonna go on and live my life
and i can still build a healthy life but
there is a corner of my heart
in which i will always loathe and detest
this person for what they did to me
and that's okay no problem and if people
are skeptical about that because we
don't hear that very much right
so i'm a psychiatrist who works with
trauma survivors
and one of the healthiest things that
i've ever realized in therapy because
you don't get taught this
it's like to tell a trauma server you
know what you want to hold on to your
[ __ ] hatred you do it
you do it go for it no big deal i will
support you
you detest this person and you never
forgive them and they
they ruined your life now i want to help
you build
rebuild another one so like let's work
on that right we don't want them
ruining our life to like ruin the rest
of your life
do they absolutely ruin things for the
first 28 years
yes but we're still going to rebuild but
you can absolutely detest that person
when they die if you want to go and you
know like don't go to the funeral and if
you want to you know
flip them go walk over to the grave and
and flip them the middle finger like
that's fine you can do that
you don't have to forgive him you can
hold on to that hatred
but we don't want their what they've
done to you in that hatred
to prevent you from like building a life
worth living right you're 28 years old
you've got 40 years left they screwed
you over for the first 28 but like let's
do something about the next 40.
and if you want to hate them for doing
that to you like i'm completely behind
you let's do it
let's talk about how awful they are
because they sure do sound awful
yeah so when someone says i want those
years back bro that's
that's where acceptance comes in because
you ain't never getting them back
right so you can be resentful over that
and you can get stuck
you can spend all of your time thinking
about the time that you've lost
and never looking forward and then your
entire life will be spent
in resentment or you can acknowledge
that time is over
and this is where i should be looking
and you can build something worth living
how would you handle a parent that's
toxic acceptance slash forgiveness
and boundaries folks
same answer all the time we'll teach you
a lot more about this so we're planning
like something a lot more in-depth about
how to set boundaries and things like
that but
the short answer is like you accept like
you know they're toxic and they're not
going to change
don't expect them to change you're just
gonna
you're setting yourself up for
disappointment and frustration
they ain't gonna change you treat them
like a force of nature
rain is gonna be wet it's just who they
are if you have a narcissistic parent
like that's not going to change like
maybe one day it'll change and then
lucky you it's like winning the lottery
my narcissistic parents is now capable
of being emotionally available
wow i never expected that
and at the same time like they're your
parent but they are the way they are so
like you know
you can get frustrated at the rain for
making you wet or you can
grab an umbrella and like
move to arizona where it never rains
so i encourage everyone who's got toxic
parents to like do your dharma
is their child right so whatever that
entails it can be very little or it can
be a lot
like i'd encourage you to like try to be
nice to them and try to help them if
they need help
and also like you know if it's like one
if you see them once a year because it's
christmas time because you're their kid
and you're like okay fine
i'm gonna i'm gonna have a crappy
christmas this year and i'm just gonna
see them once for one week and they ask
you i never see you this happens a lot
right because like
if you set limits with your parents any
time you show up
they're like oh my god i can't believe
you abandoned me like don't you love me
like
i only see you during christmas and then
you stop and you ask him
so like what's your understanding of why
i come here
once a year they're like because you
don't love me
you you don't like me this is so like
you're so mean you don't care about your
mom
and then and then you can kind of point
out to them that like everything you're
saying is about you
has it ever occurred to you that like i
am a human being in this relationship
what do you think my needs are that i
only see you once a week and then
they're gonna be super confused
they're like just tell me tell me what
to do i'll do anything
and that's when you say okay if you were
willing to do anything
i want you to think about what my needs
are in this relationship and tell me
what you think they are
no just tell me just tell me this is the
problem
you're you're not even spending the
energy to think about it
just think about it and tell me what you
think i need in this relationship
no you won't tell me like why are you
being so mean and you can say this is
exactly why i come once a year
because any time i have a conversation
with you it's always like woe is me
and i i literally am unable to have a
conversation with you
i'm asking you to think about my
perspective and i'm not seeing you being
able to actually do that which i don't
blame you for it's fine like you are who
you are
and your grandparents you know weren't
nice to you either so like no big deal
but if you want to understand why i come
once a year that's why i come once a
year because when i come here
i don't feel like i can have a
conversation with you like tell me how
to have a conversation i've asked you
what to do
what did you hear me say what did you
hear me ask
you want me to what again just tell me
i'll do anything
i want you to just think about what my
needs are in this relationship
they're like okay fine will you stay
longer
no i won't i'm willing to stay for four
days
i love you mom but i can't tolerate you
it's the most i can handle and until
you're able to understand my needs and
like
help support them in some way like i
can't be here for longer than four days
i'm sorry i wish i we i wish i had more
stamina
is it so painful to be with me yes
yes it is oh my god
you hate me i don't hate you i just find
you intolerable
right like i'm trying but like i need
you to do more than what you're doing
right and that's where like sometimes
you don't want to pull punches because
that's what the narcissists do right
you guys see that have the narcissistic
parent we just flipped to the vulnerable
side
oh my god do you hate me you're
you're because you're you're you know
you're
bludgeoning your parent with truth and
then they play that card
they're gonna find some way to
emotionally manipulate you
into like telling them that they're okay
they're looking for that one thing no
mom of course i don't hate you
oh my god mom i'm so sorry please stop
crying and then you pat mother
narcissism non-traditional narcissism
plus traditional heart system
they can flip back and forth with
whatever they need to get their [ __ ]
emotional needs met
that's how it works whatever they need
they'll find a way to get it so you
don't give it to them you lay your
boundaries you encourage them to
introspect
you can also say things like here's what
i think would be helpful you're like i
don't know what to
i don't know how to think about your
needs i don't know what you want you can
say okay so if you're having trouble
figuring out i totally understand
i recommend you see a therapist and talk
to them about it and see what they think
they're like okay so i made a
recommendation to you
i think that would be helpful you're
telling me you don't know what to do i
think this will be helpful
and you're choosing not to do it what is
the therapist going to tell me you just
tell me what is the therapist content
i'm not sure
it's my recommendation do you want to do
what i'm recommending yes or no you
don't have to
you just tell me i don't see how it's
gonna help why won't you just tell me
what did i do wrong
yeah so i've said what i'm gonna say i
don't think continuing this conversation
is useful at all
i'm happy to listen
okay so i've shared with you what i
think we need to move this relationship
forward you're welcome
to do it if you want to you're welcome
to not do it if you don't want to
i don't see the point tell me the point
you know like go to therapy and you'll
see
like no tell me like why should i do it
and they're just constantly trying to
engage with you
constantly trying to pull you in pull
you in pull you and pull you in
are you telling me i'm broken are you
telling me that i'm a bad parent are you
telling me that
i ruined your life there it is looking
for the reassurance
and you can say did you hear me say any
of those things
oh okay i'm gonna just step out i'm
literally gonna step out of the
conversation right now because
i see that you're talking but i don't i
think i've already made my point you
just keep talking
you seem to be like trying to corner me
with like asking me for particular stuff
so i'm literally going to walk away from
this conversation you turn around
you walk out because they will continue
asking you questions
they will continue talking to you until
they wear you down
you get become cognitively disinhibited
you can't control your emotions anymore
and then if you lash out at them they're
gonna feel vindicated
because they feel unloved they feel
hated and if you lash out at them
they're like oh see he hates me oh my
god i was right
all along and then the cycle reinforces
so literally extract yourself from the
conversation
only solution you can do
okay what if you do hate them you could
tell them
it may not help what i would say is that
there's a part of me that hates you
i'd leave some wiggle room in there
she's in my room though so
walk out of your room i can't give
advice though they'll be like you came
out of my
and now giving me advice no i'm not
giving you advice i'm letting you know
what i think what i need in this
relationship you can do it or not do it
and they're like screw you i ain't gonna
do it
you're like okay fine no big deal
i've asked you to do something you don't
have to do it right i came out of your
v five asterisks anyway yeah so for a
lot of people who are talking about like
i get slapped and stuff like yeah so
there's there's a whole like
this is why i like so i i'm kind of
going off script here this is why like
this is actually a whole
long thing which includes
power dynamics okay so that's the really
tricky thing here
is that if your parents if there's a
power dynamic between you and your
parents you have to respect that power
dynamic you can't get over it
yeah need skill 100 for this yes you
absolutely do so let me explain
something to y'all chat
if dr k is sitting here on stream and
telling you just do this
just say this man it's it's how it works
i want you all to understand
i have literally had like eight to ten
years
of training and experience like
residency is like 80 to 100 hours a week
for four years okay so what i am capable
of doing
is not because i'm amazing but also is
like requires a lot of like
experience right i am a professional i'm
a professional
talker and so you you all need to
cut yourself some slack give yourself
some patience
be patient with yourself and work on
these things like
a little bit at a time and i've seen
people get there it's going to take you
a year to not kidding
like don't expect everything to turn
around six months from now
setting limits with your parents is a
lifelong journey
okay it is exhausting
but you know you can do it it just takes
effort
energy awareness and patience like you
all will get there like i have faith in
you
like i don't think you have to become a
psychiatrist because we learn all kinds
of other crap
right it's not just setting uh
boundaries with
entitled parents or narcissistic parents
there's more there's things like ect and
tms and pharmacology there's a lot of
stuff packed in there but like it's
gonna take some time
why is life so exhausting because we
don't understand the rules and no one
teaches us
that is why life is exhausting